port java interaction to scala 2 (#2867)
scala/docs.scala-lang: _overviews/scala3-book/interacting-with-java.md

## How to use Java collections in Scala

When you’re writing Scala code and an API either requires or produces a Java collection class (from the `java.util` package), then it is valid to directly use or create the collection as you would in Java.

However, for idiomatic usage in Scala, such as `for` loops over the collection, or to apply higher-order functions such as `map` and `filter`, you can create a proxy that behaves like a Scala collection.

Here’s an example of how this works.
Given this API that returns `java.util.List[String]`:

{% tabs foo-definition %}
{% tab Java %}
```java
public interface Foo {

>   static java.util.List<String> getStrings();

Reviewer: I don’t think abstract static methods exist in Java.

Author: right, that makes sense. Really I only wanted to list the signature rather than show source code, not sure the best way

Author: I added in an implementation.

}
```
{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}

You can convert that Java list to a Scala `Seq`, using the conversion utilities in the Scala `scala.jdk.CollectionConverters` object:

{% tabs foo-usage class=tabs-scala-version %}
{% tab 'Scala 2' %}
```scala
import scala.jdk.CollectionConverters._
import scala.collection.mutable

def testList() = {
  println("Using a Java List in Scala")
  val javaList: java.util.List[String] = Foo.getStrings()
  val scalaSeq: mutable.Seq[String] = javaList.asScala
  for (s <- scalaSeq) println(s)
}
```
{% endtab %}
{% tab 'Scala 3' %}
```scala
import scala.jdk.CollectionConverters.*
import scala.collection.mutable

def testList() =
  println("Using a Java List in Scala")
  val javaList: java.util.List[String] = Foo.getStrings()
  val scalaSeq: mutable.Seq[String] = javaList.asScala
  for s <- scalaSeq do println(s)
```
{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}

> In the above code `scalaSeq` is a wrapper over `javaList` that adapt's it to Scala's `mutable.Seq` collection.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the above code `scalaSeq` is a wrapper over `java.util.List` that adapts it to Scala's `mutable.Seq` collection.
```

## How to use Java `Optional` in Scala

When you are interacting with an API that uses the `java.util.Optional` class in your Scala code, it is fine to construct and use as in Java.

However, for idiomatic usage in Scala, such as use with `for`, you can convert it to a Scala `Option`.

To demonstrate this, here’s a Java API that returns an `Optional[String]` value:

{% tabs bar-definition %}
{% tab Java %}
```java
public interface Bar {

>   static java.util.Optional<String> optionalString();

Reviewer: Same comment here about abstract static methods.

Author: I also added in an implementation.

}
```
{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}

> First import the `scala.jdk.OptionConverters` object, and then use the `toScala` method to convert the `Optional` value to a Scala `Option`:

Reviewer: What you really import is the converters _within_ the object `OptionConverters`

Author: done

```
{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}

## Extending Java interfaces in Scala

If you need to use Java interfaces in your Scala code, extend them just as though they are Scala traits.
For example, given these three Java interfaces:

{% tabs animal-definition %}
{% tab Java %}
```java
public interface Animal {
  void speak();
}

public interface Wagging {
  void wag();
}

public interface Running {
  // an implemented method
  default void run() {
    System.out.println("I’m running");
  }
}
```
{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}

you can create a `Dog` class in Scala just as though you were using traits.
All you have to do is implement the `speak` and `wag` methods:

{% tabs animal-usage class=tabs-scala-version %}
{% tab 'Scala 2' %}
```scala
class Dog extends Animal with Wagging with Running {
  def speak = println("Woof")
  def wag = println("Tail is wagging")
}

def useJavaInterfaceInScala = {
  val d = new Dog()
  d.speak
  d.wag
  d.run
}
```
{% endtab %}
{% tab 'Scala 3' %}
```scala
class Dog extends Animal, Wagging, Running:
  def speak = println("Woof")
  def wag = println("Tail is wagging")

def useJavaInterfaceInScala =
  val d = Dog()
  d.speak
  d.wag
  d.run
```
{% endtab %}

> {% endtabs %}

Reviewer: Should we also mention the fact that “nilary” methods in Java can be called both with and without parens (ie, `d.run` and `d.run()` are both valid)?

Author: I added an explanation

## How to use Scala collections in Java

When you need to use a Scala collection class in your Java code, use the methods of Scala’s `scala.jdk.javaapi.CollectionConverters` object in your Java code to make the conversions work.

For example, suppose that a Scala API returns a `List[String]` like this:

{% tabs baz-definition class=tabs-scala-version %}
{% tab 'Scala 2' %}
```scala
object Baz {

>   val strings: List[String]

Reviewer: Abstract vals in objects are invalid in Scala too. I think it is important to always show valid code examples, even if I understand your idea here. We could either add ` = ???`, or turn `Baz` into a `trait`.

Author: I added in an implementation.

{% tab 'Scala 3' %}
```scala
object Baz:
  val strings: List[String]
```
{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}

You can access that Scala `List` in your Java code like this:

{% tabs baz-usage %}
{% tab Java %}
```java
import scala.jdk.javaapi.CollectionConverters;

// access the `strings` method with `Baz.strings()`
scala.collection.immutable.List<String> xs = Baz.strings();

java.util.List<String> listOfStrings = CollectionConverters.asJava(xs);

for (String s: listOfStrings) {
  System.out.println(s);
}
```
{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}

That code can be shortened, but the full steps are shown to demonstrate how the process works.
Be sure to notice that while `Baz` has a field named `strings`, from Java the field appears as a method, so must be called with parentheses `.strings()`.

## How to use Scala `Option` in Java

When you need to use a Scala `Option` in your Java code, you can convert the `Option` to a Java `Optional` value using the `toJava` method of the Scala `scala.jdk.javaapi.OptionConverters` object.

For example, suppose that a Scala API returns an `Option[String]` like this:

{% tabs qux-definition class=tabs-scala-version %}
{% tab 'Scala 2' %}
```scala
object Qux {

>   val optString: Option[String]

Reviewer: Same here.

Author: I also added in an implementation.
